[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
Andrew Collins is
with us, noted writer.
He's got 15 books about
incredible subjects.
As a matter of fact,
when you open up one,
you want to read the next
one, because they are just
all fascinating about
human evolution and some
of the things that have
happened on this planet,
or in the universe.
And what we're going to
talk about on this program
has to do with the
Nephilim, the giants.
If you have read the Old
Testament part of the Bible,
you will read about fallen
angels, the Nephilim,
that they came
down here to breed
with whatever species of females
were on the planet at the time,
and created giants.
Andrew, really?
>>ANDREW COLLINS:
That's what we're told.
Yes, it's a long story,
and one we hopefully
should get to the bottom of.
But it starts in
the book of Genesis.
We're told that these
angelic beings called
the Elohim take
mortal wives, and they
produce these offspring.
And the offspring
are originally named,
although it was changed in
later versions of the Bible,
as the Nephilim.
And this story
seems to be expanded
in a book that's known as the
Book of Enoch and its prequel--
no, sequel, I should say--
called the Book of Giants.
>>NOORY: The Book
of Enoch, of course,
being about Enoch, right?
>>COLLINS: Well, it's
not so much about--
>>NOORY: From his point.
>>COLLINS: It's from
his perspective.
In theory, it was
written by him.
And it's about his journeys.
I mean, basically
what happens is
that these two angels turn
up in his house one night
as he's trying to sleep.
And they both say,
you know, do you want
to come with us on a journey?
And he said, you know,
OK, I'll go with you.
And they take him and show him
the so-called seven heavens.
>>NOORY: Sounds like an
ET abduction case to me.
>>COLLINS: Well, absolutely.
And I know that Erich von
Daniken sees it in that way.
And who knows?
He could be right.
But what they show him is
very, very interesting,
and the story that's
told along the way.
Because one of the
places that they go
is like this sort of settlement
that's high on the mountain
where these beings
called the Watchers live.
Now, the term Watchers,
which in the original Hebrew
is [? Eden, ?] which means
basically those who watch--
>>NOORY: Like witnesses.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, yeah.
Basically they are described
as these tall beings
that are like trees.
So obviously very big.
And they live in this community,
which I often describe as
almost like a kibbutz in a way.
You know, it's got its
gardens and walls and things
that are going on, and it's got
an astronomical observatory.
And, you know, other different
buildings and places.
And the story is that
some of these Watchers
have descended from
this location, which
is described by various names.
It's called Heaven,
it's Paradise,
but it's also Eden as well.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
All right.
>>COLLINS: And that they come
down to the plains below,
so it sort of
suggests that they're
coming down from a
mountain-like environment.
And in the plains below, they've
mixed with the mortal women.
They've trafficked
with humankind.
And these women
have then produced
these giant-sized babies.
And, you know, it is emphasized
that they are of large size.
We're going to get
onto the fact of, well,
who exactly were these Watchers?
Who exactly were these Nephilim?
And in my opinion, we're talking
about flesh and blood beings,
beings that, in my
opinion, were born
on Earth, because although
the biblical account, the Book
of Enoch and these other
so-called Enochian texts,
suggests that they
are angelic in nature,
there is a lot to suggest
that they are flesh and blood,
and that the bibles
that are produced
look like their Watcher fathers.
In one particular account--
this is what's actually said--
that, you know, the
husband accuses his wife
of having slept with
one of these Watchers,
because the baby that's produced
is not only large in size--
>>NOORY: But looks like.
>>COLLINS: But looks like--
>>NOORY: Like the father.
>>COLLINS: Has very pale
skin and red, ruddy cheeks,
and things like this.
Very albino-like in
appearance, and very large.
And the wife says, no no no,
look, I've only slept with you.
You know, this is our
child, or whatever.
>>NOORY: Yeah, right.
>>COLLINS: And, you know,
this is the birth of Noah, I
believe.
And so, this is
the type of stories
that you find in these texts.
So we're definitely dealing
with flesh and blood here.
>>NOORY: They're
strange stories.
>>COLLINS: They are.
And that's what fascinated
me about them when I first
started looking into
them, about 25 years ago,
and I started to
write a book called
"From the Ashes of
Angels," which has brought
out all of these traditions.
And so, if these
are flesh and blood
human beings,
well, who are they?
>>NOORY: And where
did they come from?
>>COLLINS: Why
are they so large?
Why do they seem to have
these albino features?
Certainly amongst their
population-- we can't say they
all were albinos.
So, we say, well, who
are we, to start with?
Well, we are Homo sapiens.
We existed on the
Eurasian continent,
certainly for
about 45,000 years,
possibly with earlier
waves, perhaps as early
as 65,000 years ago.
And we took over the
Eurasian continent
from the Neanderthals.
Now, in theory, they were
supposedly more primitive.
But the more we
find out about them,
the more we know that
they did have an intellect
and were very advanced
in their lifestyles
and their technologies.
But just recently, we've
also put onto the human map
a third type of
humankind that coexisted.
>>NOORY: [INAUDIBLE], yeah.
>>COLLINS: And these are
known as the Denisovans.
And their fossil
remains have been
found so far in only one site.
It's in southern Siberia in a
place called the Denisova Cave.
And it would seem as if the
Denisovans existed from maybe,
let's say, 400,000 years
ago down to approximately
40,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: What were their
features have been, Andrew?
>>COLLINS: Well, this is where
it starts getting interesting,
because all of the
anatomical remains that
have been found so far suggest
that the Denisovans were huge.
Their teeth so large, that when
they were originally found,
they were mistaken for that
of a cave bear, and cave bears
are pretty big.
>>NOORY: That's
a two-inch tooth.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
And every piece of
evidence suggests
that we could be looking
at the giants of old.
We could be looking here
at the physical Nephilim.
>>NOORY: Was
Goliath one of them?
>>COLLINS: He could
have been, yeah.
He could have been.
But we have to look
at the evidence.
And at the moment, all
of this is brand new.
All of this is only coming out
now within the last decade.
And what we know is that
evidence of Denisovan DNA
has been found in a number of
populations around the world--
I mean, modern populations.
In Eastern Asia, but
also in North America,
amongst various Native
American tribes.
And these same tribes
have got these traditions
about the giants, or the
Nephilim, in their midst.
Very often, they were
at war with them.
But we also know that many of
these Native American tribes
had within them a power elite
that was of a giant nature,
that the chief, you
know, the leaders
of the Native American
tribes, would often
be of extreme height,
up to seven feet tall.
These were encountered by the
earliest European explorers--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>COLLINS: --to reach the
North American continent.
But also the other
continents as well.
You know, Central America
and in South America.
There were giants
all over the place.
They were there.
There are many
different accounts.
Almost certainly, these are the
descendants of the Denisovans.
And if not pure Denisovans,
probably their hybrids--
mixtures between Homo sapiens
Denisovans and almost certainly
Neanderthals as well, because
we know that all of these
interbred.
That's the one thing we can
tell by the DNA evidence--
that all of these interbred.
So coming back to the
story that we started with,
that that's told in the Book
of Enoch, about the Watchers,
they themselves were described
as extremely tall, you know,
like trees.
The Nephilim were
extremely tall.
The babies were extremely large.
Is it possible-- is
there a possibility
that these giants, these
Nephilim, these Watchers,
were all descendants
of the Denisovans,
and if not pure
Denisovans, hybrids?
I think the answer is
absolutely going to be yes.
Erich von Daniken,
of course the author
of "Chariots of the Gods?"
also tied in the Nephilim
with fallen angels.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- And as the Bible says, they
saw that the daughters of men
were beauty, so they
took them to wife.
By the way, in [INAUDIBLE]
of the Bible translation,
they say, the fallen angels
saw that the daughters of men
were beauty, and they
took them to wife.
What is a fallen angel?
They who descended.
And not only in the
Bible you find this.
Absolutely clear again
in the Book of Enoch.
They Clearly say the
guardians of the sky,
they had a mutiny on board.
Some of them wanted to have
sex with beautiful humans.
They wanted to have contact,
sexual contact with them.
But it was forbidden to do so.
That's written in
the Book of Enoch.
So they make a mutiny.
Enoch gives even
the names of 36 of
these extraterrestrial
figures which say,
we want to go down there.
We want to have sex.
We want to do this, even if
it's against what the lord--
the lord is the commander
of the spaceship-- says.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: It's kind
of interesting
how the drive for sex pushes
all these incredible stories
that we read about
in the New Testament.
>>COLLINS: Well, it's
a very flesh and blood
thing, isn't it?
And it compounds
once again that we
are dealing with mortal beings.
>>NOORY: Something happened.
>>COLLINS: And not something
that's incorporeal.
These are corporeal beings.
>>NOORY: There's no question
that some event happened,
whether they are fallen
angels, extraterrestrials.
You can't make up
that kind of stuff.
>>COLLINS: You can't.
And I think what's so important
is that these Watchers that
were said to have descended
from Heaven or Eden or Paradise
and went down into the plains
to take mortal wives were also
said to have revealed to them
science and technologies,
the earliest forms
of civilization.
And this is so interesting,
because the accounts
of the Watchers we can tie
into the area around Gobekli
Tepe, the oldest stone--
>>NOORY: Here we go again, yeah.
>>COLLINS: --structure
complex in the world.
Indeed, there is an ancient city
not 25 miles from Gobekli Tepe
called Harran.
It's a very, very ancient city.
>>NOORY: In Turkey?
>>COLLINS: It goes back to--
it goes back 10,000 years
to the time of Gobekli Tepe.
And the story
relating to that is
that the earliest wisdom that
allowed the first inhabitants
to learn their astronomy
came from the Watchers,
and that they actually
found this stele, this stone
tablet that revealed the
astronomy of the Watchers.
So we can actually
link the Watchers
to the very area
of Gobekli Tepe.
>>NOORY: Kind of paint us a
picture, Andrew, if you can,
about what happened in
ancient civilizations.
With the story of the fallen
angels and the Nephilim,
in your opinion, based
on your research,
what do you think happened?
Kind of take us through this.
>>COLLINS: It's my opinion
that the Watchers are
some kind of power elite that
came into the area of Turkey
and the Near East in general
and took over the show
at the end of the last ice age.
>>NOORY: Where'd they come from?
>>COLLINS: In my opinion,
they came from the north.
They came from
beyond the Caucasus,
probably in what is today
the Steppes of Russia.
>>NOORY: So, they were
earthbound creatures?
>>COLLINS: In my opinion, yes.
And they brought together
all of the indigenous peoples
of the region
around Gobekli Tepe.
And they engaged them in
this building project,
which I think had a
lot to do with the fact
that there had been this
comic cataclysm immediately
before this time.
And this cataclysm,
by the way, is
mentioned in the
so-called Enochian texts,
like the Book of Enoch, and
its sequel, the Book of Giants.
It actually talks about it.
It talks about the flood.
It talks about
this rain of fire.
Very clearly, this relates
to a cataclysm that
occurred prior to this time.
And I think that all of that
has to do with this comet impact
that we now know
occurred around 10800 BC
but had reverberations
for many hundreds of years
afterwards, right the way
down to around 9600 BC,
when Gobekli Tepe
was constructed.
And in my opinion, the memory of
the Watchers and the Nephilim--
because those two are
essentially synonymous,
even though--
>>NOORY: Very similar.
>>COLLINS: --it's said that
the Watchers gave birth
to the Nephilim, if
you actually look
into the origins of
the use of both names,
they essentially are
the same thing coming
from two different traditions,
that have become separated
at some point.
But in both cases, we're talking
about giant beings, basically,
giant flesh and blood
beings, that give humanity
the rudiments of civilization.
And I think that that was the
power elite at Gobekli Tepe.
>>NOORY: There are reports
that the bones of these giants
have been discovered, that
they're in the Smithsonian,
they're being hidden away.
I interviewed a pilot who
was in Afghanistan years ago
who claims that he stumbled
across one of these,
that there was even a
live one in a cave that
attacked some soldiers.
So they're out there.
They're out there somewhere.
But I would love to have one
of these skeletons displayed
for the world, wouldn't you?
>>COLLINS: It would.
And the problem is
that the largest amount
of giant skeletons that
have been found probably
comes from North America.
There are literally thousands
and thousands of accounts.
Some of these we can
put down to hoaxes.
Some of these we can put
down to misinformation.
But there is a core
there of real accounts
that were recorded in
Smithsonian journals
and publications and other
similar scholarly works
that tell us that the
early archaeologists did
find these giant skeletons.
Now, these were generally
anything between seven feet,
may have been eight
feet, may have
been a few larger than that.
The problem is that all of
these bones have disappeared.
And there is very
good reasons for that,
because the Smithsonian,
in an act of--
you know, the US
government in the 1980s
was made to repatriate
all of the bones
that it held within its vaults.
And this was millions of them.
Absolutely millions of them.
And then later, the
NAGPRA law of repatriation
meant that all the other
museums around the United States
also had to repatriate theirs.
So in theory, there
are no bones anywhere.
And certainly, there
are no giant bones.
And this is such a
tragedy, because--
>>NOORY: We need that.
>>COLLINS: We need them.
We need to test them.
We need to see
what their DNA is.
And my best bet is
that we're going
to see that they are
related to the Denisovans.
>>NOORY: von Daniken
seems to be fascinated
with the Book of Enoch.
You've looked at this too.
How important is
that to this story?
>>COLLINS: Well, the Book of
Enoch talks about the Watchers,
the good Watchers, those
that remained loyal to Heaven
and worked on behalf of
God, and those that fell.
And by falling, we
actually mean coming
from Heaven or from the
top of this mountain down
into the plains below.
That's the fall.
The word Nephilim
means "those who fell."
So as I said, it's
essentially the same role.
>>NOORY: And fall
could mean also
falling from your belief
systems, religion.
>>COLLINS: It can be.
It can be.
I mean, certainly from
the virtues that--
>>NOORY: The fall from
grace, for examples.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, absolutely.
That's absolutely.
And so the fallen Watchers
became the fallen angels.
These become
popularized in books
on the occult and so-called
medieval grimoires,
which are books of spells
where people could evoke
these fallen angels to
perform acts on your behalf
or to find buried
treasure or whatever.
So, they almost become
demonized in many ways.
So the true story becomes
lost within the occult itself.
And this is a shame,
really, because it
seems as if the fallen
angels were simply
those that decided to
rebel against the very
strict rules of Heaven
or Paradise or whatever,
and do their own thing.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLLINS: And it's said
that the reason they did this
was that they wanted to give
the knowledge of the Watchers
to mortal kind, which
they did through the wives
that they took.
And obviously the
wives, presumably,
passed it onto others,
and that created
the rudiments of civilization.
But it seems like it was a
case of too much too soon--
you know, that their
children, the Nephilim,
ran amok and drank blood
and did dark things.
>>NOORY: Vampires.
>>COLLINS: And became
bad boys, basically.
And vampires, of course.
And so they had to be killed.
They had to be got rid of.
And so what happened was
that the fallen angels were--
the fallen Watchers were
rounded up, taken back, and put
in prison within Heaven.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>COLLINS: That's according
to the Book of Enoch.
And all of their Nephilim
babies were killed--
>>NOORY: All right.
Horrible.
>>COLLINS: --in the
first infanticide,
you know, of the Bible.
>>NOORY: Again,
there's got to be
some truth behind some of this.
>>COLLINS: Some of it, yeah.
Yeah, there's something
going on here.
But again, it all emphasizes
the corporeal nature
of what's going on here,
the flesh and blood nature.
You know, we're not
just dealing with--
>>NOORY: It's very violent.
>>COLLINS: --ethereal
angels here.
We're dealing with
beings that actually
lived and died on Earth
itself, in some manner.
So, from all this
came civilization.
This is the strange thing.
And this is exactly
what happened
in the area of Gobekli Tepe.
Type There, we had the first
agriculture, the first animal
husbandry, first metalwork, the
first beer, the first wine--
lots of different things.
The same type of things
that the fallen angels are
said to have given us.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>COLLINS: So in my opinion,
the founders of Gobekli Tepe
are the fallen angels,
the fallen Watchers.
>>NOORY: Who was Enoch?
>>COLLINS: I think Enoch
was a bystander, somebody
that was witnessing
what was going on,
on the edge of things.
He would seem to have
known the Watchers.
We have to be careful here,
because the Book of Enoch
itself is very clearly made up
of a series of older texts that
are not accredited
to Enoch himself.
In fact, the oldest parts
of the Book of Enoch
come from an earlier text
known as the Book of Noah.
>>NOORY: Aha.
Was Noah related to Enoch?
>>COLLINS: Yes.
I think he's either the grandson
or great-grandson of Enoch.
And Noah, of course, is
the guy with his family
that survives this cataclysm.
So we can clearly place
him during this period,
when this Younger Dryas
comet impact event actually
took place.
>>NOORY: I want to talk with
you more, Andrew, about Noah.
But there was a film
back in 2014 about Noah
that ties into the Watchers.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- The creator formed
us on the second day,
the day he made the Heavens.
We watched over
Adam and Eve, saw
their frailty and their love,
and then we saw their fall.
And we pitied them.
We were not stone
then, but light.
It was not our
place to interfere,
yet we chose to try
and help mankind.
And when we disobeyed
the creator--
he punished us.
We were encrusted by your world.
Rock and mud shackled
our fiery glow.
Still, we taught mankind
all we knew of creation.
With our help, they rose
from the dust, became great
and mighty.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: I remember
watching that movie.
It was one of the
strangest movies I've ever
seen, with these rocks
that were somewhat human,
and things like that.
I'm not sure it really
happened like that,
but something dramatic
happened, I think.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
And the Watchers on there-- who
are made out to be like these
rock creatures--
the size of them is brought out
here, the fact that they were--
>>NOORY: They were giant size.
>>COLLINS: --giant size.
Clearly exaggerated, as
probably the original accounts
in the Book of Enoch are
exaggerated themselves.
But there is a core
of reality here.
There's a core of
historical truth.
And I think that the Watchers
were flesh and blood beings.
I think the Nephilim
were as well.
And I think that they were
the founders of civilization.
>>NOORY: I think
you may be right.
Now, back to Noah, of
course, the offspring
eventually of Enoch,
we had this big flood.
And he was warned, of course.
And I don't know if the ark
story specifically is true
or not.
But there was some kind
of fact behind that.
But what do you think caused
the Great Flood, Andrew?
Was it an asteroid
that hit the ocean
and created this tsunami
that wiped out a region?
What do you think it was?
>>COLLINS: Well, in the
past, it was considered
that the Great Flood occurred
during the chronological period
of the Bible.
So in time frame,
probably around 2500 BC.
But remember, the Bible
tells us that the world
began in 4004 BC, so clearly
there's something wrong.
I think the smart
money today would
be that it's a memory of this
comet impact that took place
around 10800 BC, with
these lingering after--
you know, this aftermath that
occurred for hundreds of years.
The actual flood itself
occurred because the fragments
hit the ice sheets, which at
that time were up to two miles
in depth.
And this melted
much of the water.
This flowed into the oceans,
drowning many low-lying regions
very quickly.
And I think it's
a memory of that.
>>NOORY: Huge imprints.
It could be.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: It could be.
How about the tip,
though, to Noah?
Who tipped him off?
>>COLLINS: Well, I think that
if we think of the astronomer
priests and the shamans
involved with Gobekli Tepe
and see how advanced
they were in 9500 BC,
we have to accept that there
were similar astronomer priests
and shamans existing
when the cataclysm began.
And I suspect that they would
have had some kind of awareness
of what was going on.
They would have known that when
a comet appeared in the sky
and it started to break up, they
had a certain amount of time
to get out, or to go
in caves, or to move
to higher ground, or something.
>>NOORY: They could
see the tail coming in,
and things like that.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
I think this is what happened.
And I think it's the
legacy of that that ends up
being behind the power
elite at Gobekli Tepe,
and that these shamans, these
priests, that come in and take
over the show in
Southeast Turkey,
have not just this
memory of the cataclysm,
but they're able to tell
the local population,
look, we told you
and your forebears
that the cataclysm was
coming in the past.
We will make sure that it
will never happen again.
>>NOORY: I wonder if the
erosion on the Sphinx that so
many experts are now
beginning to say indeed
happened had anything
to do with this flood.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- For over half its
known life, the Sphinx
has been buried up
to its neck in sand.
Despite this protection
from the elements,
the body of the Sphinx
is deeply eroded.
Although it's been dug out
and repaired many times,
nothing's ever been found to
tell us who built the Sphinx,
or when.
This is John
Anthony West, author
and independent Egyptologist.
While researching the work of
French mathematician Schwaller
de Lubicz, he made
a chance discovery
that would change his life.
Schwaller made the
simple observation
that the Sphinx had been
eroded by water, not
by wind and sand, as
traditionally believed.
These are two very
different types of erosion.
Water in the Sahara Desert?
There's been no significant
rainfall in the Sahara
for 9,000 to 10,000 years.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Here again, something
happened dramatically
during that time period.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
Which obviously brings us
into the role of the Sphinx
and the pyramids and
this great mystery.
And I think that
there is evidence
that the Sphinx, and certainly
the rock from which it was
constructed, was around at
the time of this cataclysm,
and that yes, it would have seen
these very violent changes that
were going on, right
the way down to 9600 BC.
And of course, there
is much evidence
to suggest that the
Sphinx is older than what
the archaeologists tell us.
>>NOORY: Much older.
>>COLLINS: They say around
2500 BC, and that it represents
the faces of one of the
pharaohs that built the three
pyramids on the Giza Plateau.
But most likely is
that the original face
was that of a lion.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm, and
they carved it off.
>>COLLINS: And that this
was perhaps even built
as a memory of this cataclysm.
The symbol of the
lion is one of terror
and, you know, not destruction,
but of a fierce nature.
And we have to be aware
that in astronomical terms,
this cataclysm took
place in the Age of Leo,
the age of the lion, due to
the fact that the stars of Leo
rose at the time of the
equinox during this period.
And why did they choose the
lion for this particular age?
Could it be because that was
the symbol of this destruction,
symbol of this rain
of fire that was said
to have come out of the sky?
And indeed--
>>NOORY: It's all
tied in together.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
There is a female goddess
in Egypt called Sekhmet.
And she is this fierce
lioness that throws fire down
on humanity in the old legends
because Ra, the sun god,
became tired of the chatter
of the humans down on Earth.
And he gets this goddess,
this lion-headed goddess,
to throw down this fire and
almost destroys the human race.
So I think that the
tradition of the Sphinx
is somehow linked
with this story.
>>NOORY: And they
blame it on god, right?
A very unhappy god.
>>COLLINS: They blame
it on an unhappy
god, who was Ra, the sun god.
>>NOORY: Let's talk about
what happened, though.
Where did they go?
Where are the Watchers?
Where's the Nephilim?
Where are the giants?
Where are they?
>>COLLINS: Well, we have to try
and put this into a perspective
to do with our own
human evolution.
We have to take it in many ways
out of its biblical context,
because if all of
these stories do relate
to the foundations
of civilization,
it occurred somewhere in the
area of Gobekli Tepe, which
is Southeast Turkey and
the Near East in general,
around 9500 BC, through to
about, let's say, 5000 BC.
And by that time, if there were
people in these communities
that looked different--
maybe they were extremely tall.
And let's talk about
the description
of the Watchers for a
moment, because one account
is very interesting.
It said that they had
faces like vipers,
and they had very piercing eyes.
>>NOORY: Like snakes.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
Now, what type of
person would have
a head or face like a snake?
>>NOORY: An ugly person.
>>COLLINS: Well, maybe.
But also somebody with an
extremely long head and jaws
that were extremely long.
And there are
certain populations--
>>NOORY: A long neck.
>>COLLINS: --around the world
that have this type of head.
And I mean, you
only have to look
at a lot of these long-headed
individuals, the skulls that
are found in places
like Peru and Mexico
and in the Middle
East as well, that you
could construe these
people as having
a serpent-like appearance.
And we can make
this link directly
through the Maya of the
Yucatan, because there's
a certain priesthood
known as the Chan, which
means the serpent or snakes,
who would deliberately deform
the heads of the
babies that would
be born so that they looked
like their founder Itzamna.
>>NOORY: They
elongated them, really.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
And their founder,
Itzamna, which
means basically the snake, or
he was the snake or serpent.
So we know that the elongation
of the head is somehow linked
or equals snake-like
in appearance.
>>NOORY: Could these
be reptilian ETs?
>>COLLINS: In my
opinion, probably
I think that we have to look
for a more earthly explanation.
And one of the pieces of
evidence for the reptilian
explanation comes from
these weird figurines
that have been found in
graves in Iraq, placed there
by a culture known
as the Ubaid people.
They date to about
5000, 5500 BC.
>>NOORY: And what
do they look like?
>>COLLINS: And they
have these long lizard
or snake-like heads, extended
with these tufts of hair.
And some of them even
are shown holding babies.
Others have these
emblems of office.
And they'll be found in the
graves of various individuals
from this period.
>>NOORY: Small figurines?
>>COLLINS: Yeah, they're
small figurines like this.
I mean, there's a few of them on
display in the British Museum,
for instance.
>>NOORY: They're made
out of what, stone?
>>COLLINS: I think they
are made of baked clay.
But there's loads of them.
I mean, some of
them are just heads,
and they are made of stone.
>>NOORY: And they
all look the same?
>>COLLINS: Very similar, yeah.
And even though some say
that they are lizard-headed,
almost certainly they
are snake-headed,
and they are abstract form of
these long-headed individuals.
Because the Ubaid
people, their ancestors
were known as the Halaf.
Their ancestors were the
builders of Gobekli Tepe.
And within the Halaf, they
also elongated their heads,
just in the same way as the
Maya and the peoples from Peru.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>COLLINS: But
what's so interesting
is that the heads that were
elongated were already long,
so they were just accentuating
a particularly long-headed skull
in the first place.
In other words, they were doing
this for some kind of status.
In other words, we
look different to you.
Clearly, they were
the power elite.
They were the descendants,
in my opinion,
of the builders of Gobekli Tepe.
>>NOORY: Theologians
would go crazy
over many interpretations
of the Bible,
because in this
particular case, we
seem to be talking
about something
that's more earthbound,
as opposed to angelic.
They may be extraterrestrials
and, again, not angelic.
So religious people
would go nuts
thinking that you
don't believe in God,
or you're taking that away.
I don't think that's the case.
I don't think you have to negate
the belief of a higher power
to believe this theory.
>>COLLINS: I agree.
And at the core of these stories
is this historical account.
And I don't think any
theologian would deny that.
I think there would
be a lot of debate
as to what it represented.
But you cannot deny that
the angels, the Watchers,
and the Nephilim were
flesh and blood in nature.
But of course, that's
not to take away the fact
that there are different
types of angels.
I mean, there's the
angels that rescue us
from cars after an accident.
There's the angels that come to
us in our dreams and visions.
There are the
angels that probably
guard the throne of Heaven.
I think it's a term that's
used for many different types
of being, and amongst
them are definitely
flesh and blood human beings.
>>NOORY: John Milton in his work
"Paradise Lost" kind of alluded
to these fallen angels.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- "Paradise Lost" is basically
a massive, dramatic retelling
of the story of Adam and Eve.
God makes the world.
He makes our first
parents, Adam and Eve,
and he puts them in charge
of the Garden of Eden.
He tells them they
can do anything
apart from eat of the fruit
of the Tree of Knowledge.
Satan, a fallen angel,
disguises himself as a serpent
and comes along and tempts
Eve to eat the apple.
She then persuades
Adam to do so too.
God is angry and banishes
our first parents
from the Garden of Eden.
Paradise, it seems,
is lost forever.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Wouldn't you'd love to
be in a time machine, Andrew,
and go back into time to this
time period we've been talking
about and just be a witness?
I wonder what you'd see.
>>COLLINS: Well,
I think if I was
trying to look into the
origins of the Garden of Eden,
I wouldn't see the story that's
given to us in the first pages
of the Book of Genesis.
To me, Adam and Eve represent
the earliest population
of the Near East after the
time of this cataclysm.
The serpent represents
one of the Watchers.
In fact, the Book
of Enoch actually
gives us the name of the
serpent in the Garden of Eden.
He actually names and
says, it was one of us,
one of those fallen angels.
And I think that
therefore we're talking
about some kind of
allegorical story
here about the
Watchers giving us
the rudiments of civilization,
and us maybe misusing it
initially, or it being a
case of too much too soon, so
that we're banished
from the Garden of Eden,
the Garden of Eden being the
area of Southeast Turkey, Iraq,
Northern Iraq,
Syria, parts of Iran.
Because it's said that where
the four rivers of paradise
converge is the very area
of Eastern Turkey, not far
from Gobekli Tepe.
But what's also interesting
is that the area of Mount
Ararat, and another
claimant for where--
>>NOORY: Where the ark might be.
>>COLLINS: --the ark actually
landed after the Great Flood,
is also in the same area.
So all of these early stories--
>>NOORY: It's an amazing area.
>>COLLINS: --from
the Book of Genesis
occurred in the area of
probably Eastern Turkey
and were then brought,
probably by Abraham
who, as we mentioned, was born
right close to Gobekli Tepe,
probably within sight
of Gobekli Tepe,
he then takes these stories
south into what we know today
as Palestine and Israel.
>>NOORY: Let's bring in another
element from the late Zecharia
Sitchin in his work "The
Earth Chronicles," where
he talks about the Anunnaki that
came here from a planet called
Nibiru and genetically altered
whatever creatures might have
been on the planet at the time,
hence the creation of the Adam
and the Eve.
Is that possible?
>>COLLINS: The Anunnaki, or
to give them their other name,
the Anunna--
the Anunna is
based on two words.
Anu-- which means heaven, it
can mean star, it can mean sky--
and nunna, which means people.
So you're actually just talking
here about the sky people,
basically.
It is said that two of their
number, Enlil and Enki,
gave humanity the
rudiments of civilization.
One of them gave us the
first sheep, it's said.
The other one gave
us the first grain.
This is the
Mesopotamian tradition,
amongst the Sumerians and the
Babylonians, the Acadians.
And what's so interesting is
that this story, which is all
based around a place
called the Du-Ku mound,
which is where the Anunnaki
were said to have existed,
which was located on a
mountain called [? Karsak, ?]
which basically meant
the holy mountain,
has actually been associated
with Gobekli Tepe.
Professor Klaus Schmidt, who was
the discoverer of Gobekli Tepe,
actually came to the
conclusion that the Anunnaki
were the power elite behind the
construction of Gobekli Tepe.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
How it all ties is--
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: --truly remarkable.
>>COLLINS: So, if that's
the case, then the Anunnaki,
or the Anunna, were also the
Watchers or the Nephilim.
They are all the same.
>>NOORY: They are all the same.
In your opinion, were there
giants on this planet?
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Many?
>>COLLINS: I think there was
a whole population of them
originally.
>>NOORY: All over the planet?
Or just this region
we're talking about?
>>COLLINS: Yeah, yeah.
I mean, we have to go by
the evidence, of course.
And the actual
remains that we've
got so far come from
Southern Siberia, very, very
interesting place, which
I'm investigating right now.
And we find evidence of
their DNA right the way
across Eastern Asia, but
also in North America,
in Central America,
and in South America.
>>NOORY: Are we them?
>>COLLINS: Well, today we can go
to these websites where you can
send your--
>>NOORY: DNA? ancestry.com
is one of them.
>>COLLINS: And it
comes back to us.
And we can actually find out
whether there's any Denisovan
or any Neanderthal within us.
>>NOORY: I mean, will it say
you're part of the Nephilim?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
And I think that if
you find out that you
have some Denisovan,
you can say, yeah,
I am descended from the
giants or the Nephilim of old.
If you're descended
from the Neanderthals,
then I think that you
were the ones that
gave us some of the
earliest evidence
of advanced human activity.
>>NOORY: It's
exciting, isn't it?
>>COLLINS: It's absolutely
a very exciting time.
I mean, DNA evidence is
changing everything at this time
to do with anthropology.
>>NOORY: What keeps
driving you, Andrew?
You specifically.
>>COLLINS: I want
to know the answers.
I mean, you know,
there are so many
mysteries still to be solved.
And I just want to be
able to go to these places
to speak to the archeology,
speak to local people,
get the inside story from
them, to be able to confirm
our true origins in this world.
>>NOORY: I love how some of
these stories are passed down.
Others have, as we talked about
earlier, just simply vanished.
>>COLLINS: Well, as I said,
it's to do with civilizations.
I don't think we're just
dealing with one civilization.
We're dealing with many.
And they open up like flowers
at one part of the world,
and then they will close again,
maybe a few thousand years
later, perhaps to
do with a cataclysm
or some environmental
disaster or something.
And then another one will open
in another part of the world.
And I think that
even though there's
a certain amount of
cross-cultural contact,
that a lot is lost,
and that it may well
be that in Paleolithic times,
maybe 15, 20, 30,000 years ago,
even longer ago, we had certain
things which we are only
rediscovering today.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Andrew, thanks for
being on the program.
>>COLLINS: It's my pleasure.
>>NOORY: We call this show
"Beyond Belief," because that's
exactly what is happening here.
Stories that you've heard
are simply beyond belief.
The stories of fallen
angels, of the Nephilim,
that you read in the New
Testament and the Old Testament
and in the Bible,
could be significantly
different from what
really happened.
So when you look at researchers
like Andrew Collins, who simply
say, oh, no no, there's
something else that's happened
and I'm going to
get the answers,
just keep watching
programs like ours,
and maybe we'll get
you that answer.
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]